Now that we know how to set up notifications, let's jump onto
another demo and learn how to set up triggers.
In this demo,
we are going to write a simple Lambda function that is going to log the
URL of the repository and the master branch commit ID when they user
merges his changes to the master branch.
The Lambda function needs to have the right IAM privileges set up
before it can stream the logs to CloudWatch.
This is just one example of what can be done with the triggers.
Your Lambda function can be modified to trigger any other AWS
service that your project may dictate.
I just logged into AWS CodeCommit. Under list of
repositories, click Globomantics, click Settings, choose
Triggers, and click on Create trigger.
Let's give our trigger a name.
I'm going to name it Globomantics Trigger.
Under Events,
you can choose any specific event for which you want trigger this, or you
can choose all of the repository events. You can specify the branch name
for which this action needs to be triggered.
Under Service details, we're going to choose AWS Lambda.
I already have a Lambda function named TestFunction, which is developed.
I'm going to select this. Click Create trigger to finalize trigger creation.
Let's go back to the Lambda console and see how this test function is set up.
The dashboard shows the metrics of all of your Lambda
functions in that specific region.
Click Functions, choose TestFunction.
You can see our TestFunction is connected to CodeCommit. Click on TestFunction.
On the function code, you can see that we selected Node.js as our runtime
environment, and the JavaScript code that prints the clone URL and the commit
array. We will come back and revisit the code in the next video clip when we
are talking about the CodeCommit API and understand how this function is
written. Under Execution role, I selected AWSLambda role that lets me upload
the logs to CloudWatch.
I accepted the default settings under Network and Concurrency.
I'm going to log in to Cloud9 and commit few more changes to our repository and
test this trigger. You can see we are in the develop branch.
Let me open file1.txt. I'm going to make some changes and save
this file. Let me add this to the local branch, commit it, and
push the changes to remote bench.
Let me go back to the CodeCommit console, create a pull request, and merge these
changes to CodeCommit. Also pay attention to the fact that we're deleting the
source branch after merging. This process is exactly the same as what we
followed in the last module. Now that the merge is completed, let's go back to
the Commits section and you can see a new commit ID at the top. Under Code,
click on file1.txt and you can see the changes that we did before are also
successfully merged to the master branch. Under Services, let's go to the
CloudWatch console, click Logs, select View log groups, choose the
lambda/TestFunction log group, and select the latest log stream data. You can
see the log statements that were pushed from our Lambda function to CloudWatch.
Click on the zoom icon to your left.
You can see the last commit ID that occurred in the master branch and the clone URL of the repository.